We've just finished with an example where we found ourselves with a problem where we would have to create
another finder class with another find item inside of it as a function to accommodate the types that
we're passing in as parameters, right?
List of strings.
If we want to do list of objects in general or list of integers of bullying, we'll have to duplicate
that code.
And I'd say that there is something that will save our lives.
It will make us less make us having less code or less code reputation, which is real good.
And I said that type is generic type.
What is a generic type?
Well, as the name implies, a generic means something generic.
It's not specific.
OK?
And in many cases, being unspecific is not a good thing.
But in this case, it's great because it gives us this flexibility of passing in any type that can be
received within the function or, in this case, a class and still work.
So a generic type is a flexible class or interface that is parameterized over tight.
So what this means is instead, for instance, if we were to create, create a class write that we know
that we need to pass a parameter that it accepts in this case would say box, and it would put it inside
of angler brackets or angle brackets like this string to say this box is going to contain this box has
a parameter of string in this case, right?
And of course, we have a constructor, premier constructor, and we have also a parameter that we're
passing of time string.
So this box here will only contain will only accept string types.
That's how we parameterized this box.
Which is not very helpful, because if we want to create a box with integers, for instance, then is
that going to work?
It will work, but it will have to create another box glass and pass a prime tries integer, which is
not a good thing.
So instead, with generic types coddling, we can do this.
We can say box and inside of angled brackets that we can put it right.
And we can also pass as in our constructor here as a type T, also for our property.
So what this tease 10:40 is just a type, so it's a generic type.
It could be a string, could be a person, data class or object could be a car.
It could be whatever we want it to be.
Of course, sometimes you can have some restrictions, but in general you will accept whatever you want
to be.
OK, so that is our saving grace.
Let's take a look in code.
How do we transform our Finder class so that they can accept either types as well and still work?
That is the key point.
OK, let's go and take a look.
So back here, see what we have that problem, right?
Because I tried to create lists, list of numbers in passing some numbers and when I pass it and sort
of find her, then we have this issue here.
It's not very helpful because they're saying, Well, find out.
I don't know what are you talking about because I can only accept a list of strengths because that's
the contract we have in our final class here.
To change this is very simple.
So what we can do in our finder, we're going to add the angle brackets and say T and then going to
change this as well to T a such changed element to T and change this element instead of a found item
function to T as well.
All right.
Of course, we have a little problem here because it's saying find out that item element here.
It's not understanding because we passed the list of numbers.
This makes no sense because this is a string, so we need to pass our in this case here.
Let's say we want to pass twenty three because that's b the integer we're trying to find.
Just like that, we didn't do have to do much, really.
If I go ahead and run this, we found 23 and it works.
If I try to find two hundred thirty three, which it's not part of our list, we should see.
And no, hopefully.
And voila, found no.
Very good.
And we've solved our problem just like that because we understand how generics work.
We're passing a T to say this T can be anything, any type, right?
And now at least here, we also have to pass that to you.
Say yes, we're accepting the type T.
Whatever we pass here obviously has to be uniform everywhere else, right?
And in our element find item here, we're also passing T and for our found item function here, which
ends up being a Lampeter later might see him into.
With exclamation point, which means it's going to be an olive oil.
And if we can pass and get that it like that there, we didn't have to change much.
We could.
Also, I'm going to go and find our old friend here.
Let me get this list of people.
Just to show you here that this still works, so I'm going to put this back there, so we created a
person person, this is a previous lesson where we create a data class right there, data class and
then put that on the this list of people.
I'm going to use that list of people to pass instead of a finder here.
I'm can have a little problem because it's going to say this is makes no sense.
So in this case, let's go ahead and say Ruti, because that's one of the people that we have there.
Let's go ahead and run.
See said found a person named Rudy.
Last name Ashafa, age 54.
And he will say, OK, why is this still working, even though we didn't come here and say something
like this, right?
We want person types.
Well, the reason being is because the moment we pass these types inside of this function here or class,
that is it will be inferred that indeed, that is the types that we were looking for because these types
are the ones that are being propagated inside of a find item to look for something.
But as I said here, that we should, we can remove these.
In fact, we should just to make our code cleaner because it is explicit type arguments so we can just
remove that.
And that's fine.
OK, so there you have it.
So whenever you want to avoid code duplication in this sense, consider using generics because they
will save your life.
So this was the basic entry level of generics.
Of course, there is more to learn about generics.
And I would encourage you to do some research the generics cuddling so you can learn more.
The idea of what generics are and what else can you do with generics?
One thing to keep in mind is that he can pass different types here, right?
It's not just that we can pass this one, you could put the X, Y and so forth.
And of course, accordingly, you will have to change things around so that these new types do.
There's no parameters that we're passing can actually be used.
But the main idea is that you're not limited to just passing one type at all.